but without further ado
i'm excited to pass things over to tim
to get us started here
hey great thanks for having me this will
be fun thanks to
all of you guys i love all of uh
assassination out there
and it's fun to have a chance to talk
with everybody today so i want to talk
about what we have done
around net retention um and i think it's
one of the most under
sort of utilized and talked about things
uh in sas so but what kind of review
is our progress and playbook around that
so why should you listen to me i mean
look
we still have a long way to go a lot to
learn but
we moved nrr 40 points in a year
which is pretty remarkable and um so i
at least wanted to
level set i think everybody is sas pros
i think you guys get all this but the
level set on definitions
i'll talk about grr nrr and logo
retention
uh nrr you you can read the other
definitions but
what we mean here is total revenue minus
any revenue for churn
plus expansion upgrades cross sell and
upsell so that's what we're talking
about nr um
we made this a laser focus made a lot of
progress
in this area and i believe
at a board level discussion at a c-suite
we're going to see
more and more discussion particularly
for those of you
in marketing you're going to hear more
about
nrr than ever
particularly kind of in a post-pandemic
world as we see more scaled sas
companies
why are we not spending more time
thinking about our base of customers why
are we not building the muscle
around expansion cross-sell upsell
one it's great business but what is
really most
why are we not spending more time with
our customers and making them
our best advocates why are we not
spending the quality of marketing
sales product alignment on our current
customers as we are
new customers at the top of the fall
so let's dive into a little bit of the
backstory i think
many of you guys may know terminus i
just want to hit this quick to kind of
level set on the company and kind of
where we're at today
we were founded in 2014 we kind of
founded and started the account based
movement some of you may
know sangram barge who created the whole
flip by funnel
movement we scaled very quickly to
over 100 employees we're about double
that today
i joined as chairman and ceo in 2019 but
i've been part
of the journey from the very beginning
being part of the board and then
an early investor and what we kind of
found leading up to that point we scaled
very very quickly
incredibly rapid growth it almost grew
so quickly that we had to slow down a
bit
before we could speed back up hence our
focus really on
retention uh like many of you i mean
covid was a humbling thing for us to
work through
and reallocate our marketing budget and
continue to adjust
tactics but at the end of the day we're
coming off
a record year where covid really was an
accelerant for
uh our business not in the way it was
for telemedicine or virtual events or
some of those but
it really has accelerated this idea of
digital transformation i mentioned that
because
it does matter if you have headwinds or
tailwinds and
so while i think we've done a lot of
good things from an execution standpoint
there have been some market dynamics
that have really worked in our favor
which uh we're grateful for
so a bit of look well i threw this in
because who doesn't love shit's creek
seriously so uh you gotta love this one
and you everything will be fine
it was kind of my message coming into
this year sometimes you just have to
slow things down so you can speed back
up and when we really thought about the
core things that we wanted to focus on
as a team there's three pillars that
i'll go through and three that are
pretty familiar but they kind of don't
sometimes all come together
in concentric overlapping circles the
way they could
people process product and what i'll do
is break down
each one of those attributes i'll try to
get a little bit into the weeds and some
of the secret sauce on how we did
some of this and then frankly i hope
there's some good questions and it
invites some dialogue so i can learn
from you as well
so first let's talk about people what we
did is we
realigned our entire org structure we
move
new business retention and account
management all under our cro
we happen to have a very gifted cro tim
satterwhite and
my view is that retention and
acquisition but
both should sit under the same leader
why would you go about
acquiring customers that you can't
retain the incentives incentive
alignment
everything should tie together the next
thing that we did is we pulled together
a lot of the work that we were doing but
wanted to communicate in a better way we
called it terminus 360.
so for every single one of our accounts
abm is hard
so there's a three to four person team a
surround sound team you can see each one
of the different roles
an account manager technical support
person
abm product advisor who will come on
board and help you with
your account we we're so serious look i
mean here's the headline an introvert if
you're serious about it you've got to
put your money where your mouth is
and that's what we did so 40 to 50
people who are part of our company
really about a quarter of our company is
dedicated to this function
and making it work now and it's 24 by 7
support
hands-on guidance anytime you need it
kind of moving along with that process i
made it very clear that both
grrr and nrr were my top priority
i shared that with the board shared that
with each one of our employees
we were unapologetic about it even when
we made bets and investments
uh as a company with resource allocation
it was more to our existing set of
customers than it was driving new
business
um so it was declared as my top priority
then we really thought about
how do we really get to the right level
of predictability understanding leading
indicators
and all the same focus that would go
into the kind of retention motions
that we've historically put into the new
business motions
it's really interesting i think
marketing today
is massively under funded as it relates
to
customer marketing so we move dedicated
resources to marketing
customer marketing be more on that later
and
i really believe that retention is the
new acquisition
and stay tuned more on that and then we
created a dedicated
six-person account management team that
did not exist in the past
and we created what you're seeing here
is an example of a vip customer webinar
6810 customers getting very hands-on on
on how they work together a couple uh
questions
please keep the questions coming as we
go it'll kind of break things up for me
but
um nrr does not include revenue from
new customers it is just uh just for
existing
thanks for the question victor
some of the internal changes that
mattered um we
changed csm compensation to go from
gross dollar retention to logo retention
so even if that meant that we had to
right size an account we always wanted
to do what was right for the customer
so it was more important to me that we
serve a customer in whatever way they
are needed so we really made everything
around saving
logos saving our current set of
customers then we created
i don't know how many of you have done
this but created a single point of
contact inside
the company we called a red account
manager
and any customer who was having a
challenge
or something that boiled up to be a
priority we called
red account manager that person would
keep a list
of all escalated accounts call those
accounts and say
you're on my list you're on my list
every day until we resolve
your issue so i will continue to follow
up you stay on my list
and we created this central point of
contact inside the company that could go
into any function to resolve an issue
then we really thought about this kind
of path to value 4d
framework which is the kind of the four
dimensions of how do you really make
abm work but importantly it was aligning
on what were a customer's needs
all the way at the very very top of the
funnel
i think where a lot of the retention
issues break down is in handoffs
and so it was aligning why was a
customer signing off
then when we passed them off to client
success making sure they understood the
same framework
all the way down through support and
then what we did is created a product
audit which is really not about selling
but mapping
every single customer need against the
product and the five things that they
can do better across our product to get
increased adoption and making sure
they're getting full use of the platform
so question here how do you incentivize
the team to include the right customers
on the red account process
um that one is pretty um by default if
there was any customer issue
um that would we couldn't resolve within
24 hours
it got flagged and sent to this red
account manager
and that was just the default default
behavior the default motion
i review that list every day our elt
reviews that list every day and it just
kind of created that single point of
contact
so we didn't really change compensation
we just sort of changed behavior to
create the right level
of escalation and make sure that things
didn't fall
kind of between the cracks
so uh a little bit more here look to to
really make net retention work and
you've got to have more things to sell
if you're a single product company it's
really hard to move
the lever on net retention i spent a lot
of time really listening to our
customers on
what are the complementary and adjacent
products that you wish were part of our
platform
that could drive increased results so
uh we actually we ended up acquiring
three companies within a year
uh sixth third which does email
signature management ramble which is a
real-time chat
platform and grow flare which is about
account intelligence
they're all very complementary to abm
and
became part of our platform um
and i i really do believe that um
there's going to be consolidation and
customers want one
simple easy to use platform and you had
the more
we we had to create more things that
were part of our portfolio to be able to
cross-sell and upsell
in a way that was uh complementary to
our customers
um a couple good questions here
it's kind of tough suffering you guys
think would multitask to present and
kind of read some of the questions that
are coming in so keep them coming and
then i'll pause here
and in just a moment and kind of go back
to it
so let me get through the last part okay
so retention is the new
acquisition um i really believe
this when you look at the number of
scaled
sas assets that are out there now it's
just a mystery to me
why we have not spent more time really
thinking about customer success and
driving cross-sell enough so cell
it happens to be that one of the
questions is what technology framework
didn't use
um we use terminus we use an abm
framework to get there and it's really
about targeting the right customers to
begin with
engaging them in the correct
multi-channel strategy
leveraging cs to really be the hands-on
experts to get there
and then really thinking about some of
the deeper leading indicators
gainsight has been our platform and
they've been a tremendous help to us
and then it was just a laser focus on
nps satisfaction score
usage rates expansion opportunities
it'll be different for every company i'm
not going to offer you a silver bullet
but i would ask each one of you and
challenge you to think about yourself do
you know today
the three or four things that would be
the best leading indicators of retention
and are you able to really think about
that and incorporate them into your
process
how engaged are they in your marketing
programs do you have multiple people
within an account
engage in your multi your programs do
you know the last time they were
in the app do you know how long
they have been using your product you
know what their site engagement is
so it was on and on and on with an
obsession over what were the right
leading indicators that led to
client success um lori had a question
here can you speak a bit more on how you
conducted product audits
um sure it was led by our cs team it was
really kind of this terminus 360 team
and then what we did it was part looking
at the software but
frankly honestly talking with the
account and explaining these are the
parts of the platform that we have today
what do you what are you using today is
there somebody else in the organization
who could be using it so
all of us are just doing so many things
that oftentimes your customers don't
even understand the full
level of capability you have within your
product so it was just
walking them through bit by bit all the
things that were available to them
led by the cs team and then if needed
pulling in somebody else from services
to make sure that they were taking
advantage of each one of those
uh what power knowledge or training does
the red account manager have
um so we took uh somebody they report
directly to the chief product officer
and we gave them um
almost kind of magic wand type we really
empowered this person to cut across the
organization
to come to me to come to anybody within
our elt to make sure that
the right issues were surfaced that they
were brought to bear
there's just so much power and focus and
having the singular point of contact
that all
escalations go through if you could do
one thing that would be the one thing i
would suggest
and uh and it really worked
so let's uh move on a couple so and so
sort of this idea of
really playing what we're doing on time
here okay great so the idea of helping
is the new selling if you haven't
embraced that framework i truly
do believe in it and to understand if
you have embraced that i would ask
what percentage of people on your
marketing team and of your marketing
dollars
are being spent on your customers versus
acquiring new customers
and that can be a pretty humbling
exercise to go through sometimes
and what we did is we made sure that we
had that done properly
i shipped a significant amount of
resources into
customers and to making sure that we did
the proper level of
frankly just like getting marketed
marketer discussions
happening and we embraced the mindset of
no selling but just hands-on marketer to
marketer
this is how it works for us implementing
abn what are you discovering
how have you involved your sales leaders
uh into the process
exchanging best practices talking less
about the software
more about um the the sort of the
business process that had to go into
having
and look um this is these are your
customers
their family this is the chance to have
fun
uh take risk do some fun things get
hands-on
really treat them like vips and frankly
you'll learn so much from them
in the process as well so i've got a
couple examples of this
and then we'll kind of go back to a
couple of questions which i really
appreciate
so i hope there's some office fans out
there you're getting a cue into a couple
my
shit's creek in the office so we
launched a dunder mifflin case study
and we broke down kind of the whole avm
process in a way to not take ourselves
too seriously
but map it into some hands-on tips and
tricks and advice
with dunder mifflin without terminus
with terminus just have fun i mean be
marketers get hands-on with
your customers but give them practical
tips
advice learning but do it in a creative
way
quit being so boring just because you're
in b2b is not really a license to suck
you need to really up level your game
and continue to get more and more
creative with marketing
uh another example kind of after this
one um
you know 2020 was a mess why not just
embrace it
um we literally did kind of set a
dumpster on fire which was fun
and we talked about the whole dumpster
fire of 2020
and then just talked about frankly how
freaking hard this year has been
with our customers and what can we do to
help you
and then because of this change there's
no better time to think about
doing new things think about
transformation um
let me wrap up i'm loving these
questions that are coming in
so i really believe that true full
funnel marketing is the future
it's still fascinating to me that when i
really break down and if you're honest
in most of your companies maybe you're
further along
but my experience it feels that 80
plus of the resources are put on top of
the funnel acquisition
i really believe that things that i
obsess over
are things more in the middle middle of
the funnel what are you doing to to
really get
more uh juice from the squeeze how are
you really thinking about conversion
rates
how are you doing more with less
um collaborating because this is where
you're going to find a lot of things
around messaging
positioning how much leakage do you have
in your funnel
that's a great indicator of sales and
marketing alignment
is simply what your conversion rates are
and then finally on the bottom
building out customer campaigns that
really deliver value
engagement and just just have some fun
if you're ever going to take some risk
hit the place to do it again is with
your with
customers your trusted parts of what you
do they're part of your family
and uh so that's just the way it should
work so let me let me do
invite a wrap up here and then we'll
jump into some of the questions which
are wonderful so
my takeaways um if you wanted a silver
bullet there isn't one
like there is with any problem but it
really starts with a unified experience
from the beginning
from the very moment you touch a
prospect
all the way down through the bottom of
the funnel creating points of escalation
really thinking about your baton
handoffs and where you might be missing
things on cross-functional
handoffs making sure that you're
appropriately
allocating resource i went through every
single function
product engineering in fact the person
is our chief product officer
i had him go and lead our customer
success team
for six months to understand and have
empathy for our customers
for what they're doing to really embrace
that to be able to make better
trade-offs and i can tell you we shifted
about a third of our resources across
the company
into driving customer success and and
it's been the best thing that we've done
because retention is the new acquisition
again
my email it's tim.com.kopp
at terminus.com you can reach out
anytime direct and i'll follow up and
would love to hear your feedback any
ideas you have for us and i'll certainly
exchange
the same bag with you i'm on twitter at
tv cop tbkopp if you want to find me
there as well so
thanks everyone for your time and thanks
to the sasser team as well
have a great rest of the day
[Music]
you